.ds Vn 1.12
.TH vcrop 1Vi "24 April 1993" "Vista Version \*(Vn"
.SH NAME
vcrop \- crop an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvcrop\fR [\fB-\fIoption\fR ...] [\fIinfile\fR] [\fIoutfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvcrop\fP crops a file of images using a cropping rectangle specified by 
command line options. 
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
\fBvcrop\fP accepts the following options:
.IP \fB-help\fP 15n
Prints a message describing options.
.IP "\fB-in\fP \fIinfile\fP"
Specifies a Vista data file containing the input images.
.IP "\fB-out\fP \fIoutfile\fP"
Specifies where to write the cropped images as a Vista data file.
.IP "\fB-top\fP \fIrow\fP"
Specifies the first (top) row of the cropping rectangle.
.IP "\fB-bottom\fP \fIrow\fP"
Specifies the last (bottom) row of the cropping rectangle.
.IP "\fB-left\fP \fIcol\fP"
Specifies the first (leftmost) column of the cropping rectangle.
.IP "\fB-right\fP \fIcol\fP"
Specifies the last (rightmost) column of the cropping rectangle.
.IP "\fB-height\fP \fInrows\fP"
Specifies the height of the cropping rectangle.
.IP "\fB-width\fP \fIncols\fP"
Specifies the width of the cropping rectangle.
.PP
The cropping rectangle must be unambiguously specified by using any two of
\fB-top\fP, \fB-bottom\fP, and \fB-height\fP, plus any two of \fB-left\fP,
\fB-right\fP, and \fB-width\fP.
.PP
The cropping rectangle may fall partially or completely outside an image it
is cropping; in that case, the area outside is filled with zeros.
.PP
Input and output files can be specified on the command line or allowed to
default to the standard input and output streams.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vxcrop (1Vi),
.BR VImage (3Vi),
.BR Vista (7Vi)
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph Horstmann <horstman@cs.ubc.ca>
